Mindfullness - meditation pleine conscience

Christophe André
Meditation and brain plasticity

------------------
Workshop Lab'Oïkos
------------------
Apprivoiser le stress. Au long term, transformation de notre relation à notre esprit. 
Recherche équilibre. 
Qualité des pensées, du ressenti de la journée. 

Jon Kabat-Zinn, professeur MIT, MBSR = Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jon_Kabat-Zinn
Founder of Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction
Jon Kaba-Zinn is the creator of the Stress Reduction Clinic and the Center for Mindfulness in Medicine, Health Care, and Society
Kabat-Zinn was a student of Buddhist teachers such as Thich Nhat Hanh and Zen Master Seung Sahn and a founding member of Cambridge Zen Center. 
His practice of yoga and studies with Buddhist teachers led him to integrate their teachings with scientific findings. 
He teaches mindfulness, which he says can help people cope with stress, anxiety, pain, and illness. 
The stress reduction program created by Kabat-Zinn, mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR), is offered by medical centers, hospitals, and health maintenance organizations.
In 1979 he founded the Stress Reduction Clinic at the University of Massachusetts Medical School, 
where he adapted the Buddhist teachings on mindfulness and developed the Stress Reduction and Relaxation Program. 
He subsequently renamed the structured eight-week course Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR). 
He removed the Buddhist framework and eventually downplayed any connection between mindfulness and Buddhism, 
instead putting MBSR in a scientific context.
He subsequently also founded the Center for Mindfulness in Medicine, Health Care, and Society at the University of Massachusetts Medical School. 
His secular technique, which combines meditation and Hatha yoga, has since spread worldwide.
The course aims to help patients cope with stress, pain, and illness by using what is called "moment-to-moment awareness."
Kabat-Zinn's MBSR began to get increasing notice with the publication of his first book, Full Catastrophe Living: Using the Wisdom of Your Body and Mind to Face Stress, Pain, and Illness (Delta, 1991), which gave detailed instructions for the practice.
In 1994 Kabat-Zinn's second book, titled Wherever You Go, There You Are, became a national bestseller.

He is the author of numerous scientific papers on the clinical applications of mindfulness in medicine and health care,
and of a number of books for the lay public: 
Full Catastrophe Living: Using the Wisdom of Your Body and Mind to Face Stress, Pain and Illness (Delta, 1991); 
Wherever You Go, There You Are: Mindfulness Meditation in Everyday Life (Hyperion, 1994); 
Coming to Our Senses: Healing Ourselves and the World Through Mindfulness (Hyperion, 2005); 
and Arriving at Your Own Door: 108 Lessons in Mindfulness (Hyperion, 2007). 
He is also co-author, with his wife Myla, of Everyday Blessings: The Inner Work of Mindful Parenting (Hyperion, 1997); 
and with Williams, Teasdale, and Segal, of The Mindful Way Through Depression: Freeing Yourself from Chronic Unhappiness (Guilford, 2007).
 
To check:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Vr2ATJkxzGA


 
Equilibre psychique et émotionnel

Elizabeth Blackburn

--------------
Tim Ferriss
-------------
Why you should define your fears instead of your goals
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5J6jAC6XxAI
Tried to commit suicide. College student in a downward spiral who feels helpless and hopeless.
I became very methodical about testing different ways I could manage my ups and downs. 
I decided I would share my recipe for avoiding self destruction. And self paralysis. 
And the tool I found whcih have proven to be the most reliable safety net for emotional free fall is stoicism. 
Stoicism has spread like wild fire as a mean of mental toughness training. 
Think at stoicism as an operating system for thriving in high stress environments, for making better decisions. 
In the Greco-Roman world, people used stoicism as a comprehensive system for doing many things, 
but for our purposes, chief among them was training yourself to separate what you can control from what you cannot control. 
And then doing exercices to focus exclusively on the former. This decreases emotional reactivity, which can be a super power. 
There are many tools in the toolkit to get you there. I'm gonna focus on one that completely changed my life. 
Seneca: 'We suffer more often in imagination than in reality.' 
Pre-meditation of evils. Visualizing the worse-case scenario in detail that you fear, preventing you from taking actions, so you can take actions, overcome that paralysis. 
My problem was, monkey mind, very loud, super incessant. Just thinking my way through problems doesn't work. 
I needed to catch my thoughts on paper, so I created a written exercise that I called fear setting. 
It consists of three pages. First page: What if.. This is whatever you fear, whatever is causing you anxiety. 3 columns: define, prevent, repair. 
Define all the worst case scenarios that could happen if you take that step. 
Prevent: what could i do to prevent these from happening, or to decrease their likelihood. 
Repai: if the worst case scenario has happened, what can you do to repair the damage, even a little bit. Ask yourself, has anyone else in the history of time, less intelligent or less driven, figured this out? Chances are, the answer is yes. 
The second page: what might be the benefits of an attempt (if you attempted what you're afraid of doing) or partial success (at doing what you're afraid of doing)? Might you build confidence? Might you develop skills? Emotionally, financially, ..?
Page three: the cost of inaction. The might be the most important so don't skip it. Humans are very good at considering what might go wrong, if we try something new. 
What we don't often consider is the atrocious cost of the status quo, of not changing anything. 
So, you should ask yourself, if i avoid this action or decision, what might my life look like in say 6 months, 1 year, 3 years. And really get detailed, again, emotionally (relationships, personal), financially, physically, whatever. 
And when I did this it painted a terrifying picture. I realized inaction was no longer an option for me. 
Those are three pages, that's it, that's fear setting. 
If i did this, I was risking a 1 to 3 of temporary and reversible pain, for an 8 to 10 of positive, life-changing impact that could be semi-permanent. 
So I took the trip, ended up extending that trip for a year and a half around the world, and that became the basis for my first book.
Do fear setting at least once a quarter. 
You'll find that some of your fears are very well founded, but you shouldn't conclude that without first putting them under a microscope. 
'Easy choices, hard life. Hard choices, easy life.' Jerzy Gregorek
The hard choices, what we most fear doing, saying, asking, these are very often what we most need to do. 


--------------
Self thoughts
-------------

Ce que je cherche: épanouissement, apaisement, sérénité
Apprivoi
Ce qui te rassure: besoin d'une sensation de controle.
How did you arrive there:
- anxiety Babou
- stress work
-> deep feeling of unbalance, loss of control, loss of purpose

Mindfulness is living the present moment and not living with your thoughts. 
This is not to be applied all the time, otherwise you don't think about important things which make who you are, 
help you analyze situations and take decisions. And make things go ahead for instance at work by having ideas at random times. 
So you do need to have these moments where you're in your thoughts. 
The whole point is to manage to distinguish which thoughts are positive because they are constructive and make you go ahead, 
and which thoughts are negative and useless and just make you feel depressed -> the famous mental looping about things you can't change.
Also distinguish what you can change from what you can't, and focus only on the one you can (stoicism, Tim Ferriss).
------------
Related (put links)
-----------
Lagom
Stress
Balance


